# *Terrible* Investor Pitch

```
To: self
cc: [LIST OF 400 UNRELATED INVESTORS BOUGHT FROM A DATABASE]

Dear Valued Investor, our company is seeking $XXm in new funding for
our amazing patent-pending product [FOO, which nobody's heard of]. If
you'd like to learn key details about what we're doing and planning,
please email me back and we will get the information to you under
NDA.
```

I kid you not I've seen this before. This is really not how to court
investors. I mean, at least put them on a bcc: line and not cc:! Let's
just say the reply-all got pretty funny. A lot of startups mention
"patent pending" because they hear VCs ask about "moat" and having an
"IP portfolio" sounds pretty impressive, but when you actually drill
into the details most startups just filed a provisional patent or
two. And given that it takes 3-4 years for a patent to actually issue,
almost none of them are actually sitting on issued patents /
defensible IP. Folks that require an NDA are furthermore fairly
universally a sign of a newbie founder - VCs don't sign them. If
there's something that's prepatent or really the special sauce that
can't possibly be known by anyone else, then you don't show it to a
VC.

A brief sidebar now about provisionals: literally you could draw a
stick figure of a bunny and file it as a provisional patent - it
doesn't actually get reviewed by a patent attorney or anything when
you file it - and it sets a 12 month date for filing a full patent; as
an extra fun point, if you file a provisional but then publicly
disclose your invention outside the US, you've also just lost
international patenting rights since the US is the only regime with
provisionals.